# Dataset 1 - Expression Profiling by Array Analysis

The first selected dataset contains gene expression data of Adipose stem cells from normal-weight of 4 PCOS and 4 control women. The data was obtanined from Affymetrix Human Genome U133 Plus 2.0 Array (GEO accesion number: GSE124226).

Data preprocessing of the first microarray dataset involved the download of CEL files from the NCBI GEO website, with subsequent manual addition of sample information due to the absence of metadata. The affy package facilitated background correction and quantile normalization, employing the robust multi-array average (RMA) method. Quality control checks, both pre- and post-processing, were conducted using the arrayQualityMetrics package to ensure data integrity.

Differential expression analysis was carried out using the limma package, involving the creation of a design matrix without intercept, linear model fitting, and identification of top genes through the eBayes method. Adjusted p-values were calculated for the results of the differential expression analysis using the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure. For gene set analysis, Goana was employed to identify over-represented Pathways (KEGG) and Gene Ontology: Molecular Function terms among the top 300 genes, selected based on p-value and logFC. P-values were used considering the absence of differently expressed genes when considering adjusted p-values. Additionally, a more lenient logFC cutoff of 0.8 was chosen due to the lack of substantial logFC values in the dataset. Finally, the adjusted p-values for the results of gene set analysis were calculated using the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure.
